# React 

This React lab demonstrates:

1. Creation of components that render lists of data with proper key management.
2. Implementation of filtering and sorting of list items.
3. Use of conditional rendering to show different states based on item properties.
4. Application of TypeScript interfaces for type safety.
5. Implementation of proper component composition and prop handling.

## What You'll Find

You will 3 components, one for the task item, one for the task list, and one for the task filter. The task list is the parent component of both task item and task filter. These components are shaped by interfaces in our index.ts. And you will find many other ammentites that Vite so graciously provides. 

## How to Run 

npm run dev in your console

ctrl + click the link generated by vite

## Reflection

I can see the bigger picture after this lab. The biggest issue I faced,  was similar to one in lab 2: parent child relationships amongst components. BUT I think my frame of reference is greatly improved, and while struggled conceptualizing that in Lab 2, it came more naturally this time around. At first i was a little turned around in terms of making a child component first(TaskItem) and as i went through, began to see more clearly the advice given to begin with parent elements first. It really helps in shaping jsx, and understanding where Data needs to be handled(for ex, the data in TaskItem is handled in TaskList with .map)

To my point of seeing the bigger picture, I'm beginning to see code not just for the lines on the screen, but what the intention is in the browser. There is still a lot of practice I have to put in when it comes to the syntax, but I can confidently say, I'm getting much better at learning how to lay the puzzle pieces out to fit them together.

## Resources

Lab 3 Resources

I looked at Task_Management_App_V2 in my repo, for the logic in the functions since it was essentially the same objective but in JS.

Project setup:

Lab instructions


index.css

Bryans Code along pro tip - reset from this site:
https://www.joshwcomeau.com/css/custom-css-reset/


TaskItem.tsx

React_Props_and_State Repo

Bryans code along from Friday 7/25


TaskList.tsx

Lesson 7 Rendering lists examples

React_Props_and_State Repo

Bryans code along from Friday 7/25


TaskItem.tsx

https://react-typescript-cheatsheet.netlify.app/docs/basic/getting-started/forms_and_events/

Lesson 8 Basic forms


Task Filter

https://react-typescript-cheatsheet.netlify.app/docs/basic/getting-started/forms_and_events/

Lesson 7 examples 


App.tsx

React_Component_Basics in repo

React_Props_and_State


# React + TypeScript + Vite

This template provides a minimal setup to get React working in Vite with HMR and some ESLint rules.

Currently, two official plugins are available:

- [@vitejs/plugin-react](https://github.com/vitejs/vite-plugin-react/blob/main/packages/plugin-react) uses [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) for Fast Refresh
- [@vitejs/plugin-react-swc](https://github.com/vitejs/vite-plugin-react/blob/main/packages/plugin-react-swc) uses [SWC](https://swc.rs/) for Fast Refresh

## Expanding the ESLint configuration

If you are developing a production application, we recommend updating the configuration to enable type-aware lint rules:

```js
export default tseslint.config([
  globalIgnores(['dist']),
  {
    files: ['**/*.{ts,tsx}'],
    extends: [
      // Other configs...

      // Remove tseslint.configs.recommended and replace with this
      ...tseslint.configs.recommendedTypeChecked,
      // Alternatively, use this for stricter rules
      ...tseslint.configs.strictTypeChecked,
      // Optionally, add this for stylistic rules
      ...tseslint.configs.stylisticTypeChecked,

      // Other configs...
    ],
    languageOptions: {
      parserOptions: {
        project: ['./tsconfig.node.json', './tsconfig.app.json'],
        tsconfigRootDir: import.meta.dirname,
      },
      // other options...
    },
  },
])
```

You can also install [eslint-plugin-react-x](https://github.com/Rel1cx/eslint-react/tree/main/packages/plugins/eslint-plugin-react-x) and [eslint-plugin-react-dom](https://github.com/Rel1cx/eslint-react/tree/main/packages/plugins/eslint-plugin-react-dom) for React-specific lint rules:

```js
// eslint.config.js
import reactX from 'eslint-plugin-react-x'
import reactDom from 'eslint-plugin-react-dom'

export default tseslint.config([
  globalIgnores(['dist']),
  {
    files: ['**/*.{ts,tsx}'],
    extends: [
      // Other configs...
      // Enable lint rules for React
      reactX.configs['recommended-typescript'],
      // Enable lint rules for React DOM
      reactDom.configs.recommended,
    ],
    languageOptions: {
      parserOptions: {
        project: ['./tsconfig.node.json', './tsconfig.app.json'],
        tsconfigRootDir: import.meta.dirname,
      },
      // other options...
    },
  },
])
```
